# Financial analytics for Dzyga's Paw

Dzyga's Paw is Ukrainian charity fund supplying the Ukrainian military with high-tech equipment that multiplies the effectiveness of Ukrainian units in fighting Russian unjistified aggression. This repo contains a service that automatically scrapes the donation data from Dzyga's Paw financial accounts and populates the [MongoDB Atlas Database](https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/database) deployment. The service allows Dzyga's Paw to efficiently analyze income sources and show informative and transparent charts generated by [MongoDB Charts](https://www.mongodb.com/products/charts) on the website. 

You can learn more about Dzyga's Paw as charity here - dzygaspaw.com , and you can support Ukrainian fight for freedom at dzygaspaw.com/support.

## How does it work?

The service currently consists of one [Google Cloud Platform (GCP) function](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/console-quickstart) that is scheduled to run every hour by a [Cloud Scheduler](https://cloud.google.com/scheduler). For each donation source, the function finds the latest available entry in the database and searches for all transactions using APIs between the last entry datetime and the current datetime. Then, newly found donations are stored in the database.
Also, it is possible to scrape the transactions from the donation account creation date. In this case, multiple function runs may be needed to get to real-time (most APIs support getting the transaction info for up to 30 days).

The following data is stored in a standard format in the database:

- `senderName` - Sender name
- `senderNameCensored` - Censored sender name (to display in the public dashboard)
- `senderEmail` - Sender email
- `currency` - Currency
- `senderNote` - Sender note
- `donationSource` - Donation source
- `amountUSD` - Donation amount in USD
- `amountOriginal` - Donation amount in original currency (if not USD)

## Supported donation sources

### PayPal

PayPal is the most popular way to receive foreign donations for small Ukrainian charity foundations. Only personal PayPal accounts are currently supported. The transactions are retrieved using [Transaction Search API](https://developer.paypal.com/docs/api/transaction-search/v1/). Multiple currencies are supported as well.

### Monobank

Monobank is a simple way to receive domestic Ukrainian donations. International card payments are also available. [This](https://api.monobank.ua/docs/#tag/Kliyentski-personalni-dani/paths/~1personal~1statement~1{account}~1{from}~1{to}/get) API route is used (In Ukrainian). Both card accounts and jars should be supported, although only jar automation is used at Dzyga's Paw. \\ todo: add link to dzygaspaw jar

### Manual update from CSV file

It is also possible to upload transactions manually using a CSV file. This is useful to track yet unsupported donation sources or cash. The reference CSV file is located [here](https://github.com/mxpoliakov/DzygaAnalytics/blob/main/tests/test_data/sample.csv).

## Setup

### Config

The service setup happens mainly in the [`config.yml`](https://github.com/mxpoliakov/DzygaAnalytics/blob/main/config.yml) file. The file contains MongoDB's settings, donation sources, and environment variables definitions that have secrets.

### Secrets
To run the service, the following secrets are required for each donation source and database connection:

- MongoDB
    - `MONGO_URI`
- PayPal
    - `CLIENT_ID`
    - `SECRET_ID`
- Monobank
    - `X_TOKEN`
    - `ACCOUNT_ID`

Secrets are stored securely on Github in environment secrets. 

### Running locally
Assuming that secrets are stored locally in the `.env` file `creds.env`, we can run an automatic update job:

```
source creds.env
pip install -r requirements.txt
python main.py
```

To do the manual update from the CSV:

```
python mongo/update_manual.py -d "My Source" -f my_source_dump.csv 
```

### Deployment to GCP

The service gets deployed to GCP as a cloud function using corresponding [Github Action](https://github.com/google-github-actions/deploy-cloud-functions) on each commit in the `main` branch. 

### Testing
The tests are primarily e2e and use real database and API responses. Thus credentials are needed:

todo: shall we use sandbox tests? or mention here we are not running any tests over real data?

```
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
source creds.env
pytest .
```

On each commit in the PR, automatic testing, code style, and linting actions are run. 

## Story

todo include a story on what is happening in ukraine and how dzygaspaw started and how we actually came up to creating this repo and finally sharing it to public because we are open and transparent and wish for the progress

## how to help

- contribute to this repo
- raise awareness re ukraine and dzygaspaw
- donate funds 
- donate your old laptop or tablet to dzygaspaw and we will find a use for that in the military. reach out to dimko@dzygaspaw.com

